Millennials have we gone from the
greatest generation to the softest with
us today a member of the United States
Senate who knows how to turn Millennials
into adults Ben Sasse of Nebraska on
uncommon knowledge now welcome to
uncommon knowledge I'm Peter Robinson a
fifth-generation Nebraskan and the son
of a football coach Ben Sasse attended
public schools in Fremont Nebraska
spending his summer working in corn
fields he holds degrees from Harvard
Oxford and Yale and he spent five years
as president of Midland University Ben
Sasse was elected to the United States
Senate in 2014 unlike most members of
the Senate who leave their families
behind in their home states senator sass
takes his family back and forth with him
from Nebraska to Washington helping his
wife homeschool their three children
senator sass is the author this spring
of the vanishing American adult our
coming-of-age crisis and how to rebuild
a culture of self-reliance senator says
welcome back to uncommon knowledge good
to being today from Stanford University
welcome to Stanford beautiful place tell
us the story of the Midland University
Christmas tree so I was 37 when I became
a college president and I'm a business
turnaround guy and I live in this town
with a special 130 year old college is
in danger of going bankrupt nobody
thinks they're hiring me to run this
college because I know anything about
student affairs or student culture and
yet that's the thing that's keeping me
up at night my first six 12 months 18
months at the school I knew we were
going to get the debt restructure and we
were going to raise new money and we're
going to try to buy another college and
we're gonna be able to solve the
business problems but I was worried
about what was happening on student in
student life and one event crystallized
it sort of more than everything else its
Vienna code doesn't make the world but
it sort of captured and angst I had we
had a big athletic arena and there was a
20-foot Christmas tree to be erected you
know
day before day after Thanksgiving I
don't remember when it was and we had a
bunch of students who were employed by
the athletic department or the
advancement and development office and
these are good jobs like these are sort
of the being the patients are being paid
and it's desirable to work in the
development office or work in the
appoint department
these are Hardy and healthy vital young
19 20 21 year-olds and they were
supposed to decorate the Christmas tree
it's 20 feet tall and the tree was there
and all the decorations were there and
they decorated all the bottom eight feet
of the tree with twice as many
decorations as you would probably need
because they spent all their decorations
in the bottom eight feet and then
they're packing up to leaf and the tree
is naked from foot 8 to 20 and the vice
president for development happens by and
she's like hey what are you guys doing
and they said yeah we used all the
decorations and we're done and she's a
but what about the top half of the tree
and they said well we didn't know how to
get up there and she said so did
maintenance refused to bring you a
ladder and it turned out that nobody had
really thought to ask there was no real
problem solving in the group
it was we've been given a task and we
get a leave on the task is done and
bright kid kids able kids but passive
passive is the right adjective okay uh
this book lays out the figures
Millennials
I don't Millennials and those coming up
behind them do they have a name yet is
this next generation whatever they're
called Millennials will kids they marry
later they live with their parents
longer they know less about American
history they demonstrate less initiative
and more passivity that participate less
and religious organizations they're
softer not just psychologically but
physically you note that where is in the
1960s only one teen in 20 was obese
today one teen in five is obese that is
a quintuplet soft passive and this
despite having grown up during a period
of peace and by and large economic
expansion in the richest and most
powerful nation in human history what
has gone wrong you said in spite of
maybe it's because of so I want to be
clear this book is a constructive book
it's too
Thirds program for how to think about
habit formation for thirteen year olds
and 15 year olds and seventeen year olds
the part we're going to talk about first
it sounds like is the one third stage
setting about a problem right but this
book is not a blame Lang bucket is not a
beat up on millenials book it is a wow
what is this category perpetual
adolescence book so that's a new thing
in human history I want to be clear
adolescence is a pretty special concept
it's only about two millennia old we
came up with this idea that you go from
the dependent state of childhood to the
independent state of adulthood and you
don't have to boom transition from one
to the other instantaneously when you
become physically an adult two millennia
ago people came up with this concept
that when you biologically transition
from childhood to adulthood at puberty
that doesn't mean you have to
immediately be fully independent
financially emotionally morally in terms
of school leaving or household structure
we have this idea that for 18 months to
4 years you can have a kind of green
house phase of intentional transition
from one to the other that's great as
long as we remember that adolescence is
meant to be a means to an end it is not
the destination Peter Pan is a dystopian
hell it is not a utopia as Disney has
tried to remake it Peter Pan is a
character who becomes physically an
adult and yet he has no historical
awareness he has no moral awareness he
kills people and he doesn't even
remember their names that's a bad thing
we don't want to be sort of man babies
we want our kids to go from a stage of
necessary dependence to more and more
independence when they can so the
argument here is that if the children
grow up in conditions of peace and
prosperity parents the society cannot
simply leave it to reality to slap them
around and shake them up parents have to
help them grow up more intentionally
right I think that though there's no
blame laying in this book really there
were it would be at we the parents and
grandparents feet to not have thought
through what does it mean that our kids
are growing up at the richest time in
place in human history because there's a
lot about that that's obviously great to
be protected from levels of violence
that most people have known
in history to be projected protected
from abject poverty but we're going to
need to figure out how to celebrate scar
tissue with these kids because scar
tissue is the foundation of future
character we're going to celebrate it so
we cannot do the book justice because
this is video not not not print but
we're going to do is but as well as we
can as you say two thirds of this book
this marvelous book is it's a kind of
handbook on how to help kids grow up
into real adults so let's take a few of
a few of your Maxim's discover the body
I'm quoting discover the body T teens
need to appreciate the joys of birth and
growth and the tragedy of pain and
decline discover the body you that's
your first bit of instruction why yeah I
wanted to think about as you transition
from childhood to adulthood it isn't
enough to just progress through grades
in school most people most times in
human history have had rites of passage
they've had the big hunt they've had
intentional home leafing they've had
first job or first economic
self-sufficiency we've sort of muddled
all these markers together and so what I
really care about is when you're 13
versus 15 versus 17
what are these habits what are what are
the sort of affections it loves what are
the exposures you should have and so
some was about work ethic and limited
consumption etc but one of them is the
body is necessary you need to understand
your body intergenerationally because
you go from a state of dependence to
independence but you're ultimately going
to decline and become dependent again
and we're raising 15 year olds that
spend almost all of their time with 15
year olds and 19 year olds that spend
almost all of their time with 19 year
olds that's really weird
historically no one has ever done that
before if you brought people in a time
machine from 300 years ago to 3,000
years ago and you dropped them in today
I think the main thing they would think
is weird about our life at first is just
the material surplus was a cornucopia of
produced goods that they would have
known a world of nature and a couple of
things that have been built and our
world is just filled with tools and
instruments and consumption aids and
whatnot but 30 days past that I think
that people
from another place another time would
think the strangest thing about us is
that we live entirely age segregated
lives you quote Puritan Minister I'm
quoting now Puritan Minister Cotton
either was severely blunt now you're
quoting cotton mazes in your book go
into burying-place children you will
there see graves as short as yourselves
yeah you may be at play one hour
dead dead the next close quote and you
quote that approvingly so winsome book
is it is but you but you're very serious
about this point is kind of memento mori
you want children to understand you want
children to spend time with grandparents
you want them to spend time with the old
the declining neighbor across the street
you want them to be aware of the way
this all ends even as they're beginning
if our kids are going to be wise they
need to be around people who have
actually passed through some years a
thirteen year old is never going to
become wise spending all of their time
with thirteen year olds I have two
teenage daughters my kids are 15 13 and
6 our girls are that the teenagers it
hurts when a thirteen year old girl
experiences the slight of another
thirteen year old girl right and yet if
you know 60 year olds and 75 year olds
and 90 year olds it doesn't hurt quite
as much because probably this moment
you're living at is not the be-all and
end-all of your whole existence Ben
Sasse from the vanishing American don't
develop a work ethic
tell us about your grandmother Eldon
Krebs Seth my grandmother was I don't
think she ever clocked in at a hundred
pounds issues about 411 this tiny woman
and yet had larger-than-life personality
and charisma and when I was a kid I used
to travel with my grandparents a lot in
the back of their car my grandfather
came back from World War two and never
went to college himself it was the
business manager of this College for 35
years the college that I was president
oh really
real is relator and he was the business
manager ultimately kind of CFO type role
but the athletic department reported to
him so he'd travel and go to all the
away sporting events and I'd ride in the
back of the old Chevy Impala with my
grandparents and I would ask them
questions about the war
Great Depression and kind of Dust Bowl
era upbringing that they had and they
never thought anything was exceptional
about their upbringing and yet I was
stunned as a kid in early 1980s and just
how much hardship they had gone through
it was just like water off a duck's back
that they didn't think anything about
any of it it was just what you did and
my grandma had this great story about
how my dad's older brother six years
older than he was he was born
grandma was pregnant when Grandpa left
for the war and then my Uncle Roger was
born while grandpa was away at the war
and Grandma and Grandpa had just leased
some property they grew up on a farm
grandma was the hired man they're only a
year apart in age but they met his
teenagers when grandpa was the hired man
on my grandma's parents farm they had
leased some property and they were going
to start farming and Grandma had grown
up around farms but she'd never driven a
tractor and all of a sudden her
husband's away at war she's giving birth
they have new land
there's planting and harvesting to be
done and she had to figure out how to do
it and so she had this leased property
and she had a borrowed tractor and she
figured out a way to take my uncle's
bassinet and attach it to the side of
the John Deere trap tractor and she
taught herself out of plow and harvest
and I thought this was stunning as a ten
year old kid
and grandma was always amazed that I
wanted her to tell me the story again
and again because she just thought it
was necessity as the mother of invention
okay now here's what I need to ask you
to do please persuade me that this book
written by a fifth-generation Nebraskan
which is filled with stor not filled
with stories I don't want to but there
are a number of stories about your
grandparents your own upbringing as of
course there should be about about your
kids
what is it detasseling corn you have to
persuade me that this isn't in some way
a lament for a lost agrarian way of life
that characterized America through
almost all of its history and that you
in your generation and where you grew up
in Nebraska you saw the last glimmerings
of this way of life and that you young
man though you may be
are filled with incredulity daddy
well you and Thomas Jefferson oh no
we're not all farmers anymore the
country can't work anymore so get over
that address that critique or that pop
that thought in the back of a reader's
mind so let's let's locate ourselves in
economic history run a minute
hunter-gatherers agrarianism
industrialization the big tool economy
and whatever this thing is that we're
entering now mobile economy the digital
economy IT economy service economy
sociologists are throwing in the towel
they're just calling it the
post-industrial economy it's kind of a
weird thing to name something we don't
refer to industrialization as those days
the D agricultural ization of America
it's not just the push from the farm
that was technological substitution for
labor that made it more efficient it was
also the pull of factories and cities
mass urbanization mass emigration we're
going through a transition that is
pretty unique in human history we didn't
have alphabets when hunter-gatherers
settled down and began to farm so I
think the only analog for the economic
disruption we're going through and
frankly what I care about even more than
the economic disruption is the social
network and human capital
implications for neighborliness at this
moment I think the only analog we have
to this moment is the Progressive Era
where people are leaving the farm moving
to the city and there is bipartisan
panic in America that America can't long
endure
Democrat Woodrow Wilson Republican Teddy
Roosevelt this won't work because you
won't have transparency and virtue and
neighborliness they were wrong we ended
up recreating a kind of human capital in
the city's urban ethnic neighborhoods
were every bit as neighborly and
accountable as the Tocqueville ian's
village had been but there was a massive
disruption in route to figuring out what
human capital looked like in the cities
again I think we're going through an
analogous disruption in the nature of
work now but probably even more than
what they went through because we're
going to have a shrinking of the average
duration at a job that probably
accelerates forever more hunter
gatherers and farmers they didn't choose
jobs they just became eight or ten or
twelve and they did more of what their
parents and grandpa
instead when you went from the farm to
the city you had a massive disruption 15
to 25 year old males went to the city
and they had to get a job and it was
hugely unsettling for everybody social
structure but once you got a job you
tended to keep it till death or
retirement what we're going through now
is what they panicked we were going
through back then which is ever more
rapid disintermediation not just of jobs
but of firms and of industries and so
this is not agrarian romanticism it is
an awareness that if you separate work
from the household as we've done and so
kids come of age with lots of material
surplus and very little exposure to
production right you're going to have to
create something that's going to feel a
little bit artificial but that is a
structured way of habit-forming that
build the work ethic
even when necessity didn't mandate it
okay so tell me them we've got changed
economic circumstances we're going
through it the country's been through
something like this once before and
we're going through a huge something
again yeah but your argument is that
there are certain virtues that children
need to learn that American children in
particular need to learn that remain the
same from the founding Thomas Jefferson
would recognize what you're talking
about in this book although he believed
in an agrarian America we've been in an
industrial America and now we're under
exempt Third Kind why do you argue in
particular that there are certain
virtues that Americans need to learn to
make this republic work explain that
line of thought which runs through the
whole book America has promised on a few
ideas one is universal human dignity we
believe that people are created with
dignity and that those natural rights
are things that government exists to
secure government is not the author or
the source of those rights so we believe
government is limited because we think
rights are prior to government we
believe a whole bunch of pre political
things we believe that happiness is
something that people have the right to
pursue and frankly that can't be secured
by compulsion
we believe that production is the people
have the right to pursue happiness and
that is the only way to achieve it
pursuing it on your own yeah I don't
know go ahead yeah I don't think we
think that so here I'll blend a little
bit American idea stuff with I think
some modern sociology let's just soso go
ahead with the ology for a minute
I am solidly Aristotelian like that one
argument in this book is some slight
anti Platonism but I don't want to scare
people my very gentle thought okay
difference but I think social science is
now bearing out a lot of what Aristotle
understood about you know the sort of
way that nouns and verbs get wrapped up
together in habit formation you you
can't decide who you want to be in the
long term and your time is often
occupied in the short term you make
decisions about the medium term and the
medium term decisions you make about
what to pursue end up creating short
term tasks and many duties and time
expenditures in your life and those
things end up becoming habits and those
habits define your long term character
right and I think modern social science
shows us that production makes people
happy consumption doesn't and right now
our kids are not being raised with an
instinctive in the belly exposure to a
distinction between production and
consumption we're occupying our kids
time with schooling and progression
through grades as if that's their work
and then when they're not in school it's
just different types of consumption we
don't sort of burden them with having to
understand the distinction between needs
and once well that kind of burdening
with them is a real serious kind of love
because if you help your kids understand
that one of the things that defines
whether or not you're happy in life is
earned success it's a sort of a
numerator of needs mat over a
denominator of perceived needs one way
to be happy in life is to get more stuff
into the numerator but it's not a very
fruitful path it's not very reliable a
much more reliable way to be happy in
life is to guard against expanding the
denominator of your perceived needs very
far and it turns out healthy people tend
to know the difference between the word
need and the word want and we're raising
a lot of kids right now with appetites
that feel fairly limitless because we're
teaching them that more and more
consumption might fulfill them but it's
not true it doesn't bear out in wise
lots of older people
or any of the literature we have I'd
like to still stay with the nature of
the American Republic for just a moment
longer
the vanishing American adult quote
material abundance can make us freer and
less dependent obviously but
simultaneously more lonely and isolated
and here is one of the most striking
Clinton's is in the book it is very
difficult for a rich Republic to remain
virtuous close quote so here is this
strange seems to me you're all you're
almost setting up well you mentioned
Aristotle you're almost setting up a
tragic view of American history here
we're at where the greatest generation
indoors the depression your grandparents
the endure the depression your
grandfather goes off to the Second World
War and there grant through the
sacrifices that they made their
grandchildren get just the kind of life
they wanted for them and their
great-grandchildren you and your
children they get a period of peace they
get prosperity and it ruins them that
when America gets what it doesn't want
war
depression Americans are great people we
produce the greatest generation and when
we get what we want we're an
unimpressive as citizens talk me out of
it
well if you look at inherited wealth
around the world people who figure out
how to manage that inherited wealth
without growing their kids appetites
turning it into actual investments it
can work out well but if you become
consumers in the next generation there's
danger in that right it's natural that
there should be a cycle of production
wealth creation and then recreation or
leisure as an important historical
debate about why the word recreation is
more virtuous than the word leisure
because it's cyclically driving you back
to productivity again I want to I want
to be revivified but to get back to work
to live a life of gratitude by serving
my neighbor again it's natural that
inside any family or any individual
maybe even any generation that
production leads to wealth leads to
recreation but if it slides across
generations and people in the second the
third generation or just living off of
inherited wealth from production past
something lacking in their lives that is
unsatisfying for them there's tons of
data that shows that one of the highest
correlates to happiness in life is
whether or not you do work that you
think anybody needs not at the end of
the day do my knees hurt or my ankles or
my back or do I think I made enough
money or was there some annoying
jackwagon three cubicles over who talks
loudly but do I think somebody needs me
if Monday morning or whatever day of the
week you go and start your work there's
a place that you need to go because
someone needs your work you have worse
and you have dignity and you have
self-esteem and just consuming more
can't replace that so I do think there
is a danger in becoming so wealthy that
we forget to inculcate those habit
habits of productivity that lead to
happiness all right so one of the other
Maxim's here learn how to read and
beside what to read reading done well is
not a passive activity like sitting in
front of a screen close quote
senator senator kids these days
smartphones computer screens 75 inch
flat panel televisions and you want them
to turn off the screen and pick up books
now lost causes can be Noble but it
really love to hear you persuade me that
this isn't a lost cause but ranches and
nobility well let me do a little a
little history for a minute I think if
you have one true founder of America if
there's a sin Coenen that if you didn't
have this guy or gal you couldn't get
America I think it's Gutenberg so our
founders believed that are the habits of
mass literacy produce a world where
you've got competing printing presses
and it's competing printing presses that
get to sort of healthy skepticism of
authority that leads to cultural
pluralism that leads to a freedom of the
press speech assembly religion protests
America and it's predicated on the
habits of mind of decentralized power
we're individuals who created with
dignity where families are making lots
of decisions for themselves and there is
a difference between the deliberative
consumption the deliberation that comes
from reading and reflecting upon a text
the dispassionate nature of deliberation
and reflection and choice there's
something different there than the
appellative dopamine feedback loop of
shorter and shorter digital addictions
now I am a celebrant of a lot in the
digital economy I run my own Twitter
account I don't know I was about to say
I was about to say I was about to charge
you and you would have no choice but to
plead guilty you are one of the tweeting
list members of the United States Senate
going tweeting this sounds almost dirty
but I am at Ben Sasse is really me
there's an Adsense a switch is my press
office but at Ben formal dignified
decorous but the one that's really you
yeah yes I'm a commuting dad 15 year old
13 year old six year old kids lots of
fishing and snakes peering in our lives
out in the country and Nebraska and I we
just have a great time commuting as I'm
a dad educating my kids and that's who
at Ben Sasse is and I think there's a
lot about the digital moment
economically and even a subset of the
digital moment which is digital media
that has real potential but only if it's
paired with a certain kind of habit
formation that recognizes that constant
digital consumption and digital
addiction is really dangerous because
there's a time for deliberation there's
a time for choice there's a time for
action but you need to ultimately be
able to get back to a place where you
can wrestle with long thinking and
bigger arguments and your own mortality
and and your kids read they do because
you make them read because we have we
gather where the sounds of the phone
wanting them to love it yeah so by the
way this book is not only not old man
screaming get off my lawn this book is
not in any way us holding out our family
as a model fair enough we stumble and
fall every day but my wife and I have a
shared theory of what we're doing and
one of them one of the motivators behind
this book is I have a broad belief that
as we're hollow
out local community and mediating
institutions and we're politicizing
national conversation we're left with
this huge vacuum of space where people
don't have the chance to deliberate
around a dinner table
with their neighbors about how to raise
their kids well and I think a lot of
people want to do that so I wrote this
book and Melissa and I deliberated long
and hard about this book as we were
leaving the college so this idea
predates the Senate campaign to just
sort of think aloud about the theory of
what we're trying to accomplish we fail
in the execution but we've got to share
the theory of what 20 training wheels
removal looks like it's kinda how we
think about parenting a teenager we have
in the literacy chapter a quantity and a
quality theory of what we're up to
wherever possible we want a parent with
the grain I've got a theory of human
fallenness one of my kids is named after
a Gustin theologically heavy for a
six-year-old so we call him Brack but I
definitely believe in a fallen human
nature and yet when you can parent with
the grain I want to do it and so when we
could get our kids to be interested in
reading at 4 or 5 6 years old we want to
just go with it at first even if it had
a cotton candy-like feel Hardy Boys
Magic Treehouse encyclopedia brown Hardy
whatever it was we would just do more of
that when they light it reward them
praise them help build an identity that
they are readers give them stuff
occasionally we're not big into material
consumption but try to figure out how to
reward them with experiences that they
wanted when they were reading more and
then we'd substitute more quality into
the flow of their quantity we tried to
do both at once
heavy troy who i think you know oh yeah
and has a game called the Century Club
which he used to play when he worked for
President Bush Bush and Rove and TV
would have a competition to see if they
could read a hundred books in a year my
kids have never succeeded yet but we
pled the Century Club at our house a lot
of people can read two books some week
on vacation in August or over you know
Christmas holiday but to try to hit two
books a week 50 weeks in a row to get a
hundred in a year that's saying
something
and we got our kids on this pathway of
start reading stuff that's pretty
shallow and cotton candy
and then you read instead of five of
those in a row you'll read - and then
we'll substitute a menu of options of
spinach versus asparagus versus broccoli
and you pick among these three really
good bucks and then we'll let you go
back to reading some cotton candy for a
while okay a few couple of last
questions here two presidents both of
whom you write about in the vanishing
American adult quote at the beginning of
President Obama's administration the
reporter asked him if he believed in
American exceptionalism after a pause he
strangely replied I believe in American
exceptionalism just as I suspect that
the Brits believed in British
exceptionalism and the Greeks believed
in Greek exceptionalism close quote why
was his reply strange yeah honestly I it
hurts me that President Obama said that
like it one of the jobs of a president
the United States is to hold forth big
and have a Gorsuch joke here by accident
I was said Bigley to hold forth loudly
an understanding of what the American
idea is about and the American idea is
that we believe 320 million Americans
and 7 billion people across the globe
but we've got proximate governance
responsibility for these 320 million we
believe they're created with dignity and
we believe that that is a pre political
thing that you affirm creedal II as an
American and anyway and that makes this
country exception well America is not
exceptional in that we think we're
better than other people it's not an
ethnic claim it's not a tribal claim
it's a historical understanding of how
unique Philadelphia 1787 was which is
our founders said something incredibly
arrogant in Philadelphia most people
most places in all of human history have
been wrong
our founders said government isn't the
author or source of your rights rights
come by nature and government is our
shared secular tool to secure those
rights and when you flip that I sort of
I teach civics to a lot of Nebraska high
school kids and I draw an island
surrounded by an ocean on one side of
the whiteboard then I draw the same
picture on the other side and I say the
pre American view is that the island is
your rights and the ocean is the
government's power and the American view
is that the island is the government's
power and the ocean or your right
second president again I'm quoting the
vanishing American adult we need to go
back to Reagan not because you did or
did not or would or would not have voted
for him but because he was presiding at
the last moment when we talked seriously
about what America means for all
Americans the Cold War against expansion
istic Soviet Communism forced us to
explain who we were and why we differed
close quote back to Reagan can you get
kids to think seriously about the Cold
War about Reagan speeches you don't
really mean back to Reagan you mean back
to an understanding of historical
understanding of America yeah I think I
think we're living right now with two
political parties that are just hung
over from the 1960s I think both of
these political parties are incredibly
exhausted intellectually neither of them
know what they're for they're both
mostly just against the other party and
vast majority the American people want
to tune them both out I want to be clear
I think I'm the third most conservative
guy in the Senate by voting record but
I'm not very partisan because I think
both of these parties are just not
interesting I care about problems that
are 5 and 10 and 20 years in the future
and neither of these parties is dealing
with anything big it's both you know had
field in McCoys but it's it's worse than
that because it's seven year old
slapping each other to say he started it
she started it and I think that in the
Cold War you at least had a sense of an
obligation to understand why
expansionist at communism was bad and we
got to color versus bipartisan Harry
Truman starts it well and Ronald Reagan
finishes it well and its bipartisan in
between oh yeah last question
one final quotation from the vanishing
American adult quote I am an optimist
and I believe that America's best days
lie ahead all right senator from the
greatest generation to these soft
Millennials from Ronald Reagan to Donald
Trump from the lincoln-douglas debates
which is on your list of of items to
read from the lincoln-douglas debates to
whatever it was that we watched during
the presidential race last year
how was Leslie
you're an optimist but you've named one
of your children Agustin Agustin is
sitting there in northern Africa and
watching Rome fall he leads a great life
he becomes a saint he produces a
enormous volume of important literature
it's possible to lead a good life in the
end of time so to speak do you consider
yourself more in the position of Agustin
or do you really believe that this
country's best days lie ahead how can
you be an optimist well let's be
obstinate Agustin option is very dignity
of anything you I'm giving you I'm
giving you a good pessimist makes a
model you want you already set it up
though by saying we're at the last
question right now we'd have to do a
whole bunch of theology and political
theory and parse the two kingdoms and do
two cities and two loves and a city that
has foundations it seems too big for a
pardon question so I'll say I'm
definitely optimistic about the net
productivity about what the global
economy will produce in the next decade
or do more stuff and not just stuff more
services that are quite interesting I
got here with you know a Waze app I was
in San Francisco this morning and coming
down to Palo Alto there are
opportunities to not sit in traffic but
you're not life-changing but that was a
nice little gift to know taking this
exit could avoid that car wreck and not
half an ally delay five years you'll be
writing in from now in actually you
could ride from San Francisco to here
there driverless vehicles already I like
to drive so that sort of worries me now
and now I will be a Nebraska romantic
about a big county road and why every
kid should drive at 14 like we do in
Nebraska but I think that what comes
next in the digital revolution is going
to be fascinating we're going to have a
layering of information and data on top
of the physical world that's going to be
fascinating what I'm not sure about is
that the benefits of that are going to
read down to the median worker and the
median family right now and that I'm
scared about because I don't think we're
thinking at all and about the disruption
in the nature of work Larry Summers
talks about how 7.2 billion people on
earth maybe get four and a half billion
workers today we're going to
nine billion people on this planet by
the year 2050 and you might go to a
place where you only need four billion
three and a half billion three billion
workers to more than meet the needs for
all nine billion people well guess what
work isn't just about how you put bread
on the table work is a fundamental
anchor of human identity and surface and
we're meant to live a life of gratitude
by doing something meaningful we're
meant to get to the evening and get some
of that leisure or recreation or fun
food and wine and fellowship with French
looking back at the fence you built that
day or the field you formed or the
factory you colle a bird with or the app
that you designed
you're meant to look back at that and
say I produce something today and right
now I don't think we're thinking nearly
enough about the challenges to the
nature of work going forward the
potential is huge
our political conversations and are
bigger than political it's called civic
conversations they're impoverished right
now I'm trying to find it the book the
book actually ends on an up note and you
just you just sounded more like a Gustin
than I was expecting to get to right
here so the notion is the notion is what
the notion is you need to teach your
children these virtues so that they can
become good Americans so that it can
continue the chain so to speak you're
very conscious of American history and
as you've demonstrated a couple of times
here you're happy to go back to
Aristotle at the slightest provocation
but also become something because
something big and actually a little bit
alarming is coming at these kids that
right yeah there is a real difference
between actually climbing the top of the
mountain and going there on your friends
Instagram and right now we're doing a
disservice to our kids by pretending
that a more sedentary passive life might
fulfill them it's not true we need a
crazy uncle Teddy Roosevelt in our life
and I want kids to become intoxicated
with all that they can travel to through
literature across space into other
cultures by learning to produce there's
a lot of opportunity for our kids but we
need a different conversation about how
to raise them and passively allowing
them to be peer segregated into a more
sedentary posture it's not going to be
sign for them or for the Republic
senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska America's
crazy uncle in the 21st century and the
author of the vanishing American adult
our coming-of-age crisis and how to
rebuild a culture of self-reliance thank
you thank you for uncommon knowledge and
the Hoover Institution I'm Peter
Robinson
[Music]